# CIFGen
MATLAB Package for generating CIF files

## Installation
This packages makes use of the Matlab Package Manager ([mpm](https://github.com/Gangrrio99/mpm)) to manage and install the package. 

### Using the package with mpm
**Currently, classes are not fully supported by mpm, for now, it is advised to use the 'Using the package without mpm' method**
1. Clone the repository
2. Link the package to your mpm library
  - Go into the repository
  - Call `mpm link`
3. Install the package to your own project
  - Create and navigate into a new folder
  - Initialize the mpm project using `mpm init`
  - Install the package using `mpm install CIFGen`
  - All files will be located in the `packages` package in matlab

### Using the package without mpm
1. Clone the repository
2. Either copy the files to your project, or add the folder to your path using `addpath`

## Usage of CIFGen
CIFGen is an object oriented based library to generate CIF files from within MATLAB. The code has been written with the goal of ease of use by multiple people, 
simple maintance, and the possibility to add more functionality without the need to change a lot of the source code.

One of the biggest issues in working with CIF, is keeping track of the IDs used for the different symbols. If one engineer adds a new symbol without informing the other, 
this might lead into the same symbol being used twice. The same is the case with layers used in the design. To get rid of this, the library is inspired by a Factory design pattern. Instead of creating instances of different classes yourself, methods are called in, for example, the [CFIFile](./documentation/CIFFile.md) class, which will create either a layer of symbol for you. The class will also assign a unique ID to the new layer or symbol, ensuring that no IDs will be reused.

### Documentation
Although the use of the library is not very complicated as will be visible in the example below, there has been made [documentation](./documentation/documentation.md) for all classes in the library.

### Example
Let's write a very basic design, with no particular use, just to show all features in the software. The left side of the table shows the source code, and the right side the generated .cif code. 

Since all functionality is wrapped within the data you are working with, it is very easy to pass on different design steps to other engineers, who can then write the functionality in their own functions. All you have to do, is pass an instance of the generated .cif file, and they are good to go.

<table>
<tr>
<th>CIFGen</th>
<th>.cif</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>

```matlab
% Create a new .cif file
cif = CIFFile("./design.cif");

% Add comments explaining your design
cif.addComment("Example .cif design using CIFGen");

% Create two layers
l1 = cif.createLayer("Layer 1");
l2 = cif.createLayer("Layer 2");

% Create our first symbol
s1 = cif.createSymbol("Symbol 1", 1e-9); % We normalize to 1nm
s1.addComment("Our first symbol!");

% Draw a box using layer 1, of 20 by 20, located at [0,0]
s1.createBox(l1, 20, 20, [0, 0]);
% Since the polygon uses the same layer, the layer call will only be
% printed once
poly = s1.createPolygon(l1);
poly.addPoints(...
    [-10, -5, 5, 10, 5, -5], ...
    [0, 5, 10, 5, -5, -10] ...
    );

% Create a second symbol
s2 = cif.createSymbol("Symbol 2", 1e-9);
s2.createBox(l2, 40, 40, [0,0]);
% Different layers, so multiple layer calls
s2.createBox(l1, 60, 60, [0,0]);

% Let's perform a symbol call!
sCall = s2.callSymbol(s1);
% Transform the symbol call, you can chain any method call in the library!
sCall.transform(0,0).mirror("X").rotate(-3, 1);

% Let's write the file!
cif.printFile();
```

</td>
<td>

```lisp
(CIF generated by CIFGen v1.0.0 - Daan Roos (2023));
(Example .cif design using CIFGen);
(Layer definitions);
L L1; (CleWin: 1 Layer 1/0f808080 0f808080);
L L2; (CleWin: 2 Layer 2/0f808080 0f808080);
(Symbol definitions);
(Our first symbol!);
DS1 1 10;
9 Symbol_1;
L L1;
B 20 20 0 0 1 0;
P -10 0 -5 5 5 10 10 5 5 -5 -5 -10;
DF;
DS2 1 10;
9 Symbol_2;
L L2;
B 40 40 0 0 1 0;
L L1;
B 60 60 0 0 1 0;
C1 T 0 0 M X R -3 1;
DF;
E;
```

</td>
</tr>
</table>
