# Layer
>  `definitions.Layer`

The Layer class can be used to generate information of a layer in the mask design. The instance
of the class should also be used in the creation of geometries in different symbols.
To get a valid instance of the Layer class, instantiate a CIFFile class and call the
[CIFFile.createLayer](../CIFFile.md#createlayer) method.

Since the Layer inherits from [Material](./materials/Material.md), it contains its own material properties. These can be changed using the methods provied by the [Material](./materials/Material.md) class.

### Hierarchy
- handle
    - [HiddenHandle](../hiddensupers/HiddenHandle.md)
        - [CIFWriter](./CIFWriter.md)
        - [Material](./materials/Material.md)
            - **Layer**

## Constructor
> `obj = Layer(fileHandle, layerId, name, materialProperties)`

Create an instance of a Layer object that is responsible for managing the information about a layer type in a CIF design.

#### Inputs
- `fileHandle`: *int32* The file handle to the CIF file
- `layerId`: *uint32* The id of the layer (generated by a CIFFile instance)
- `name`: *string* The name of the layer (as used by CleWin)
- **optional** `materialProperties.fillStyle`: *[FillStyle](./materials/FillStyle.md)* The fill style of the material. Defaults to `FillStyle.Solid`
- **optional** `materialProperties.fillColor`: *uint8(1, 3)* The rgb color of the fill of the material. Defaults to `rgb(0, 0, 0)`
- **optional** `materialProperties.outlineStyle`: *[OutlineStyle](./materials/OutlineStyle.md)* The outline style of the material. Defaults to `OutlineStyle.Solid`
- **optional** `materialProperties.outlineColor`: *uint8(1, 3)* The rgb color of the outline of the material. When no outline color is provided, the same color will be used as specified for `fillColor`.

#### Returns [Layer](#layer)

## Properties
### **SetPrivate** layerId: *double* The id of the layer (generated by a CIFFile instance)
### **SetPrivate** name: *string* The name of the layer (as used by CleWin)

## Methods
### printLayer
> `obj = obj.printLayer()`

Add a line to the CIF file to indicate that the next geometries are using this layer.

#### Inputs

#### Returns [self](#layer)

### **static** NoLayer
> `noLayer = Layer.NoLayer()`

Get a layer that should not be used in any application, but is used as a general placeholder.

#### Inputs

#### Returns [Layer](#layer)

## Overloaded Operators
> `iseq = obj.eq(layer)` Overloaded comparison between two [Layer](#layer) instances

> `isneq = obj.neq(layer)` Overloaded negated comparison between two [Layer](#layer) instances